# README.MD for Getting and Cleaning Data Assignment
Submission for the Coursera Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project

==========================================

##Data Source
The data represented here are drawn from the accelerometers of the Samsung Galaxy 5 smartphone. Original data source is 
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip, the data used here is downloaded 03/02/2016.
Orignal code book is found at http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones, downloaded 03/02/2016;

===========================

##Scripts
###readdata.R
readdata will read the data file used for this assignment. the function will first check if the folder is available and if the .zip file that is optionally passed to it is available. If not there, this will download the .zip file and store it in the name passed to the function. This function will then unzip all the data and make it available in the folder for the next function to read and parse. This function will return the folder location of the unzipped files that were downloaded.

###mergedata.R
mergedata.R reads the data that has been downloaded and extracted by readdata.R. This script will merge all the data in to a single dataset that can then be used. Please note that this function requires the dplyr package. Optional inputs to this file are datalocation (string of unzipped archive data) and savetofile (boolean, stating whether output should be returned to environment or saved to .csv file).
At this point, the data are now merged together into a large data frame, showing all measurements for both test and training subjects as well as the activity descriptor for each.
This function is complete and at this point the data set should meet the criteria of Assignment Task 1.

###showstats.R
showstats.R will take the full data set generate by the mergedata.R function and create a new data frame that includes only data regarding means or standard deviations. This will be returned to the main function as statsdata.
At this point, the data frame generated by mergedata.R has been subsetted to show subject, activity and only the relevant columns containing mean or std dev values.
This function is complete and at this point the data set should meet the criteria of Assignment Task 2.

###addactivity.R
addactivity.R will add the descriptive activity name to the full dataset in order to make the data clearer. This will be returned to the main function as mergeddata, as before. Please note that this function can also be run on the statsdata dataset if required.
The current implementation of the run_analysis.R script will use and return the data frame from mergedata.R as the base. This can be changed in the script by passing the showstats.R data frame in to the script.
This function is complete and at this point the data set should meet the criteria of Assignment Task 3.

###rename.R
rename.R will relabel the data variable names to make them more descriptive. Please note that this function will not make the names unique as this step was already completed in the mergedata.R script.
This function is complete and at this point the data set should meet the criteria of Assignment Task 4.

###tidydata.R
tidydata.R performs tidying up operations on the data in order meet the requirements for a tidy data set.
This is done by formatting the data in to the correct rows and columns as well as ensuring that each variable is captured seperately.
This function is complete and at this point the data set should meet the criteria of Assignment Task 5.

###run_analysis.R
run_analysis.R is the main script used for this assignment submission. This script will get the data, process it, return the required output and tidy the data as required for this submission.
This script will make use of all the abovementioned scripts in order to automate the entire process in a single sweep.
